---
layout: post
title: 1.1 Code of Ethics
nexturl: "units/01/02/"
nexttitle: "1.2 Team Contract"
---
Who's watched Black Mirror -- the show brings up a lot of questions.
CS and Ethics -- what comes to mind?

Lots of organizations:

Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) -- big organization, wrote [code of ethics](https://ethics.acm.org/code-of-ethics/software-engineering-code/)

[Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers](https://www.ieee.org/)

Split into groups and assign article

# [Uber Greyball](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/03/technology/uber-greyball-program-evade-authorities.html)
  - Greyball was part of VTOS (Violation of terms of service) used to root out people who were targetings its service
  - Still remains in use outside of US (as of 2017) and approved by legal team
  - Used to track & avoid authorities
  - in 2014, it was used against officer who tried sting operation; officials are shown fake version of the app w/ fake drivers
  - uberX = noncommercial driver; often unregulated, and Uber put them to work before local regulators could stop
  - eyeballing = frequently opening and closing app
  - on the lookout for signifiers, such as eyeballing near gov office, burner phones, credit card tracking, & even calling uber drivers to cancel the ride
  - is it legal? unclear -- violation of Computer Fraud & Abuse act? Obstruction of justice? systemic thwarting of the law
  questions: how should regulation keep up with technology? what happens in these grey areas?

# [Healthcare Medicaid Algorithm](https://www.theverge.com/2018/3/21/17144260/healthcare-medicaid-algorithm-arkansas-cerebral-palsy)
  - Tammy Dobbs w/ cerebral palsy required a lot of assistance
  - one day, w/o change in needs, hours were cut basically in half
  - drastic changes were being made across Arkansas due to algorithm change
  - US is not prepared to care for older population
  - "instruments" / algorithms are lent for small royalty & info gathering
  - human-based system was ripe for favoritism & arbitrary decisions; algorithm was supposed to be more "standardized / objective"
  - program based on deeply flawed data, but Idaho went ahead with it anyway
  - no transparency or accountability; patients receive no explanation, no written standards, no one tohelp them; with difficult appeal process
  - nurses would say "it's not me, it's the computer"
  - mistake; the wrong calculation was being used; & the algorithm itself was just a decision tree/ flowchart
  - officials argued that since some people didn't appeal, they waived their legal right to fight it
  questions: what role do software engineers play in people's lives? is it right to trust the algorithm? are officials at fault for using it despite the errors and bugs? what should officials do in this situation?

# [Facebook's Rules](https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/facebooks-rules-for-accessing-user-data-lured-more-than-just-cambridge-analytica/2018/03/19/31f6979c-658e-43d6-a71f-afdd8bf1308b_story.html)
  - FB suspending Cambridge Analytica for scraping data w/o consent; but FarmVille, Tinder, etc also siphoned lots of data
  - broke rules by obtaining data under pretense of academic use
  - the "log-in through FB" feature allows app to gather profile, behavior, location, & also all of that user's friends
  - data allowed to be stored in perpetuity
  - FB didn't audit; rather it asked CA to promise it would delete the violation data (lol what)
  - privacy settings, and opt-out; malicious design
  - "endless hairsplitting that people should have known" except your data could have been compromised if your friend used the app, which kinda contradicts that argument
  - US social graph; tracking users for coming election

# [Camperforce](https://www.wired.com/story/meet-camperforce-amazons-nomadic-retiree-army/)
  - Chuck Stout; 1960 worked at McDonald's, moved up the ranks, got tired w/ corporate and got back out in the field
  - met Barbara Gatti, started Carolina Adventure Tours
  - the 2008 crisis; he lost his 250k nest egg, Barb also lost 200k in investments, and their company dwindled
  - went bankrupt, started liquidating their lives, sold their possessions, and they moved into an RV
  - drove all around the US in run down RV, worked as campground hosts, but all they got was space; it didn't pay
  - Workers on Wheels website; workampers; employment through Amazon
  - Amazon was employing temporary drivers across company under Camperforce name
  - many workers are around traditional retirement age
  - referral bonuses, warehouses began using camperforce workers
  - min wage + overtime; 10 hour shifts; super huge warehouses; lots of mental strain
  - lots of ailments from warehouse work, weather was awful, bad work environment, stress
  - lots of camperforce communities in desert
  - there are Amazon medics
  - giant robots in the warehouses, threatening to replace workers (Kivas); and would bring items to workers to scan
  questions: labor/gig economy, contract workers, poor work conditions, accountability; what can we do better? what is role of social engineers?

Answer the following questions:
1. What happened?
2. Why were these ethics violations allowed to occur?
3. Who's responsible?
4. What would you have done?
5. What can you do in the future to prevent this?

We have to hold ourselves and each other accountable.
Next class, we will divide into subgroups (this is your team for the year, though we're working for same organization)


