---
layout: post
title: 1.3 Holding Effective Meetings
---
Ask: have you had meetings before? What are they like? What goes well?

Then: introduce following guidelines

schedule meetings when everyone is free and good to meet
shouldn't be too frequent; once a week ish depending on project
Meetings should have forward momentum: does a problem need to be solved? Tasks assigned? Decision made? etc
Recap meetings aren't that productive

Set norms and guidelines, and allow for feedback
Team contract should specify how to handle such feedback

# ROLES
These should rotate on a meeting basis; everyone should have the chance to take on these roles multiple times

## LEADER
Writes the agenda, which is sent to everyone beforehand
Set clear goals for the meeting
Take agenda requests
Summarize as you go
Know how to end the meeting!

## FACILITATOR
Makes sure meeting moves along -- don't spend too long on any one topic?
Mediate conflicts that arise
Table topics for later when conflict arises and conversation stalls
Make sure all ideas are taken seriously
Set up post-meeting meetings between parties if tangent comes up

## Notetaker
Keeps the minutes in Google Drive
Should write down key points
Can ask everyone to slow down so that notes can keep up
Share notes with everyone afteward
Formalize and summarize the meeting, as well as write plan of action for next week


# Agendas
Agendas should be brief and to the point; for example:
1. 5 minute recap 2. Goals for the next week 3. What's in the way? 
and leave w/ plan of action for next week; each person should be delegated some task and feel like they are contributing

# More tips
Know when to stash ideas! Have to be able to prioritize meeting time; time is precious
Can pick up ideas at next meeting (add to agenda) or have individuals meet on their own time without everyone (obviously with smaller team, this may not be necessary)

